They've been making us walk quite a distance since sunrise.
Our battle must be imminent.
Who will we be fighting?
You don't think it's…
Are they close?
It feels familiar, nostalgic…
Itachi Uchiha…and Nagato!
You know these guys, Naruto?
Yeah, I know both of them.
I never imagined I'd be forced into fighting you again, Naruto.
It's probably been a while since we last met.
But since I've been dead, it feels like it's only been a moment.
You've changed a bit, Naruto.
Oh, you mean this?
I'm in control of the Nine Tails' chakra now.
This is my Chakra Mode!
What?
I see… No wonder you look different.
It's your face.
You now command the Power of the Nine Tails?
I'm impressed with your development!
He and I are sibling students.
I'm not surprised!
For that, it's me he owes…
Before I came along, he was pretty much in the shadows.
That's so not true!
So you've overcome hatred, Naruto?
Oh yeah! As my senior, you taught me about pain.
The training I did at the Waterfall of Truth with Octopops…
My mom and dad…
I have all of you to thank for where I am now!
I see…
Naruto, I must ask you…
That reminds me—
I have a question for you, as well.
Seems like I found you first… Eight Tails and Nine Tails.
With these two cards, he'll fall right into my hands.
Too bad I won't be able to see the frustrated look on
his face under that mask… when he realizes!
Fire Style!
Fireball Jutsu!
Contact! Naruto vs. Itachi!
Naruto, I must ask you…
That reminds me—
I have a question for you, as well.
Yo?!
Oops, was that hot?
Sorry for not giving it all I got.
Samehada…
So Kisame is…
He was still talking…
He's under a spell…
Even if he cuts you off, what the hell?
Okay?
Above you!
I see him!
What happened to Sasuke?
He says he's going to take revenge on the Leaf Village!
He joined the Akatsuki!
Why won't Sasuke return to the village?
He found out about your top-secret mission,
and chose to destroy the village!
Top-secret mission?
Don't tell me Madara…?
Madara told me the truth too.
So that's how it was…
So Madara was telling the truth!
The Uchiha Clan tried to take over the village and…
You've said enough, Naruto.
Is that true, Itachi?
Itachi…
You died playing the villain
in order to protect the village and Sasuke!
Sasuke surely understands your pain and resolve!
But instead of seeing your wishes through,
Sasuke is trying to destroy the village.
This is his way of avenging
the pain the village caused his beloved older brother!
Damn Madara, he knew the truth about me…
Do the villagers know about this?
Kakashi Sensei and Captain Yamato were there too.
But there was nothing to prove what Madara said,
so Kakashi Sensei is keeping everyone tight-lipped.
I don't think anyone else knows.
Then don't ever tell the village about this!
You can't let the Uchiha Clan's reputation change!
And one more thing…
Damn! My body is moving on its own!
Universal Pull!
Nicely dodged, Naruto!
I'm stronger now than when Pain and I fought.
I'll let you deal with Sasuke.
That was my plan from the start!
Entrusting it to you was the right thing to do, after all.
Okay, Naruto, pull me away!
I can't move by myself.
Summoning Jutsu!
What?!
Or maybe I can…
Did you always do that?
Behind you!
I got it! Okay!
Fire Style! Phoenix Flower Jutsu!
Hot! Hot! Hot!
Caught you! Ya fool, ya fool!
For someone so big, that was easy!
Keep your guard up, Naruto!
What the hell's happening?!
Genjutsu!
Don't look at my eyes!
Ouch!
Wake up!
Samehada!
Killer Bee the Eight Tails! That's me!
Yay!
This'll go on forever!
He multiplies every time you hit him!
Knock me down first!
Watch yourself, Octopops!
If you get struck by Amaterasu or Tsukuyomi, it'll be the end of you!
He's got the Mangekyo Sharingan!
It's out.
Did he do something to Naruto with his Visual Prowess?
Why did a crow come out of my mouth?
Why are you so attached to my brother?
He's a Rogue Ninja.
That's because unlike you…
I think of him as a brother, more than you ever did.
You're already under my genjutsu.
Damn it!
I'll say it again.
I just wanted to talk to you for a moment.
You've been trying to take Sasuke back to the village.
But what if it doesn't go the way you want?
I'll do anything to make it happen.
Even by force?
If, by some turn of luck,
Sasuke goes with you willingly, great.
But what if the exact opposite happens?
What does that mean?
You just said you consider Sasuke to be like a brother…
What if Sasuke were to attack the Leaf Village?
What would you do then?
What? Why would Sasuke…?
There's no way he'd do something like that!
Sasuke is still naïve.
He can easily be dyed any color.
In such a case, can you stop him?
Even if you have to kill Sasuke?
Come to think of it, back then…
I have shared some of my power with you.
Though I hope the day never comes when you'll have to use it.
This feeling!
Naruto! It's Amaterasu!
Almighty Push!
Damn it! My body's moving by itself again!
What was that?!
What's going on?!
It's not Amaterasu?
So that's how it is…
How what is…?
Amaterasu…
He used Amaterasu?
That crow… It's yours, isn't it?
What did you do with that crow?
I underestimated him…
Itachi Uchiha. He's clearly different from the rest.
He resisted my Reanimation Jutsu.
It worked…
Oh, so that's it…
Amaterasu!
You!
Relax… I'm no longer being controlled.
I used a new genjutsu against the enemy's jutsu.
A genjutsu that orders me to protect the Leaf Village.
It erased the Reanimation Jutsu.
I prepared that crow to respond to my Mangekyo Sharingan.
Just in case, for times like this.
What're you talking about?
It's implanted in that crow's left eye.
It's his eye!
There's only one genjutsu that can do that.
Shisui Uchiha's…
The ultimate Mangekyo Sharingan genjutsu in existence:
Koto Amatsukami.
Using that genjutsu, I was able to restore myself.
It appears Shisui's Mangekyo had already worn off, though.
Shisui Uchiha?
The Uchiha's most powerful genjutsu user….
Shisui the Teleporter?
Shisui's Visual Prowess creates a powerful genjutsu
that allows you to control someone without them ever realizing it.
I programmed the genjutsu, to protect the Leaf, into Shisui's eye.
Then I put it into the crow's left eye,
and after that, I gave the crow to you, Naruto.
I never realized that I'd be using it on myself someday.
Why did you have that eye, and why did you give it to me?
Self-sacrifice…
The mark of a true shinobi is that they do not seek glory.
They protect from the shadows.
Shisui taught me that.
Shisui anticipated that a battle would ensue for his eyes.
He faked his own death
and made it seem like his eyes were destroyed.
I helped him by becoming the target of suspicion in the village.
When I last saw Shisui,
Danzo had managed to steal his right eye.
He bequeathed his remaining left eye to me,
telling me to use it to protect the village, and disappeared.
I gave that eye to you, because you share Shisui's feelings.
If Sasuke, whom I left behind,
ever became a threat to the village…
then I would have violated all that Shisui entrusted me to do.
You are the only one who can make it right.
You said you consider Sasuke a brother.
That's why I felt that you, Naruto,
were the only one who could stop him.
True power… In his quest for the Eternal Mangekyo,
Sasuke planned on transplanting my eyes into himself.
If that ever happened,
that crow was supposed to emerge from you,
in response to your coming into contact with my transplanted eyes,
and cast the Koto Amatsukami to protect the Leaf, onto Sasuke.
That was my plan.
Why didn't you cast that jutsu on Sasuke from the start,
using Shisui's eye?
It's not that I didn't, I couldn't.
Not at that time…
Shisui's Mangekyo would take decades to reactivate,
unless you had Hashirama Senju's chakra.
Also, there were many things
Sasuke wanted to use my death for.
Itachi…
Thank you for trusting me.
You don't have to worry anymore.
You've done more than enough for the village.
Let me take care of the rest.
I would defend the Leaf Village!
But I would also stop Sasuke without killing him!
My little brother is lucky… to have a friend like you.
Even Shisui's eye… Luck just keeps coming my way!
Almighty Push!
Where did he go?!
It isn't going to be that easy. Fool, ya fool!
Lariat!
Gakido!
Are you absorbing chakra?
Octopops, you okay?
Ningendo!
What…
…is this?!
Planetary Devastation! He got me with this jutsu once!
It's super bad ya' know!
If you get caught in it, it's over!
Hey, Naruto, if it's a sure death, how come you're still alive?
In that case, we'll be all right! We'll get through this fight!
Hey! This is no time to be laughing!
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "The Acknowledged One"
THE ACKNOWLEDGED ONE Every jutsu has a weakness!
THE ACKNOWLEDGED ONE
Tune in again!